============
KEYWORDS
============

Lattice QCD system
Inverse of Dirac operator (large sparse matrix)

============
ABSTRACT
============

Modern graphics hardware is designed for highly parallel numerical tasks and
promises significant cost and performance benefits for many scientific
applications. One such application is lattice quantum chromodynamics (lattice
QCD), where the main computational challenge is to efficiently solve the
discretised Dirac equation in the presence of an SU(3) gauge field. Using
NVIDIA’s CUDA platform we have implemented a Wilson–Dirac sparse matrix–vector
product that performs at up to 40, 135 and 212 Gflops for double, single and
half precision respectively on NVIDIA’s GeForce GTX 280 GPU. We have developed
a new mixed precision approach for Krylov solvers using reliable updates which
allows for full double precision accuracy while using only single or half
precision arithmetic for the bulk of the computation. The resulting BiCGstab and
CG solvers run in excess of 100 Gflops and, in terms of iterations until
convergence, perform better than the usual defect-correction approach for mixed
precision.

============
BACKGROUND
============

Solve linear problems with mixed precision. Here, the use of the Inverse Direct
operator (large sparse matrix) to perform vector operations is the most
computationally expensive part of the computation.

Performance of single precision arithmetic is superior to that of double
precision. CPUs (a factor of two) while on GPUs (order of magnitude).

Using the "C for CUDA" programming language in order to use NVidia GPUs.

Previous works:
Defect-correction approaches, calculate the residual in double-precision, find
the solution using single precision, accumulate the solution in double precision
and repeat until convergence. Most operations are performed in single precision.
The disadvantage is that the Krylov search space is discarded each time the
solver is restarted.

============
SOLUTION
============
- Iterated residual is replaced periodically with the true residual calculated at
high precision.
- High-precision group-wise updates for the solution.
- No explicit restart needed.

Wilson-Dirac matrix-vector routines optimised.Krylov solver based upon those and
created on the CUDA architecture. Minimising the memory bandwidth requirements,
even at the expense of increasing the overall floating point operation count.

Alternative mixed precision method using reliable updates.

--> open-source QUDA library in order to do QCD calculations
